Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Today we talk about stochastic gradient descent.
Previously we learned about gradient descent and we found out that it is a very efficient method to
solve our optimization problem where we are trying to minimize the cost function.
It basically takes us from 10 to the power of 57 years to solving a problem within minutes or hours
or within a day or so.
And it really helps speed things up because we can see which way is downhill and we can just go in that
direction and take steps and get to the minimum faster.
But the thing with the stick with gradient descent is that this method requires for the cost function
to be convex.
And as you can see here we've specifically chosen a convex cost function basically convex means that
the function looks similar to what we are seeing now that it's just kind of vext into one direction
and that in essence has one global minimum.
And that's the one that we're going to find.
But what if our function is not convex.
What if our cost function is not convex.
What if it looks like this.
Well first of all how could that happen.
Well that could happen because if we first of all choose a cost function which is not the squared difference
between why how and why or if we do choose the cost function which is like that.
But then in a multi dimensional space it can actually turn into something that is not convex.
And so what would happen in this case if we just tried to apply our normal gradient decent method something
like this could happen.
We could find a local minimum of the cost function rather than the global one.
So this one was the best one and we found the wrong one and therefore we don't have the correct weight.
We don't have an optimized neural network.
We have a subpar neural network.
And so what do we do in this case.
Well the answer here is stochastic gradient descent.
And it turns out the sarcastic gradient descent doesn't require for the cause function to be convex.
So let's have a look at the two differences between the normal gradient descent that we talked about
and the stochastic range.
So normal green descent is when we take all of our rows we plug them into our whole network and once
again here we've got the neural network copied over several times but the rows are being plugged into
that same neural network every time.
So there's only one year old and this is just for Weasel's action purposes.
And then once we plug them in we've calculated our cost function based on the formula right and looking
at the chart on the at the bottom and then we adjust the weights then this is called the gradient descent
method or it's also the proper term is the Bachche gradient descent method.
So we take the whole batch of from our sample we apply it and then we run that the stochastic gradient
descent method is a bit different.
Here we take the rose one by one so we take this row.
We run our neural network and then we adjust the weights then we move onto the second row we take the
second row we run our neural network.
We look at the cost function and then we adjust the weights again and then we take another Rohtak or
three.
We run our neural network will look at the cost function we adjust just it.
So basically we're looking at we're adjusting the weights after every single row rather than doing everything
together and then adjusting weights to different approaches.
And now we're going to just compare the two side by side.
So here they are this is how to visually remember them.
So you've got bashed gradient descent where you are adjusting the weights after you've run them after
you've run all of the rows in your neural network and then basically you adjust the weights and you
run the whole thing again iteration iteration iteration in the sixth grade in December that you run
one row at a time and you just the way it's just a way to adjust the weights and then you do everything
again and again.
And that is called discussing.
And you said that the main two differences are that the sarcastic gradient descent method helps you
avoid the problem where you find those local extremities or local minimums rather than the overall overall
global minimum.
And the reason for that in simple terms is that the video of the stochastic gradient descent method
has much higher fluctuations because it can afford them.
It's doing one iteration or one row at a time and therefore the fluctuations are much higher and it
is much more likely to find the global minimum rather than just the local minimum.
And the other thing about the stochastic gradient descent I think is a batch gradient is that it's faster
like the first impression you might have is because it's doing every single role one at a time is slower
but actually in fact it is faster because it is it doesn't have to load up all the data into memory
and run and wait until all those roles are run altogether.
You can just roll around them one by one so it's a much lighter algorithm is much faster in that sense
so though it has way more and that's in those senses it has more advantages over the bad.
Gradient descent method.
The main advantage of or domain kind of like profer the badge gradient descent method is that it is
a deterministic algorithm or than a sixth grade in dissent being a sarcastic algorithm meaning it's
random and with the best gradient decent method as long as you have the same starting weights for your
neural network every time you run the batch gradient descent method you will get the same iterations
the same results for you for the way your weights are being updated for us to have for the sarcastic
gradient descent method you won't get that because it is a stochastic method you're picking your roles
it possibly are random and you are updating your neural network in a sarcastic manner and therefore
you're just going to every single time you run the sixth grader and do some method even if you have
the same weights at the start.
You're going to have a different process different iterations to get there.
So that's in a nutshell what's to castigate and dissent is also there's a method in-between the two
called the Mini Bachche gradient descent method where you combine the two and you basically run rather
than running a whole batch of running one at a time.
You run batches of rows maybe 5 10 or 100 over Munro's you decide to set those number of rows at a time
then you update your way single digits and so on.
And that's called the Mini Bachche gradient descent method if you'd like to learn more about gradient
descent.
There's a great article which you can have a look at.
It's called in neural network in 13 lines of Python part two gradient descent by Andrew Trask and the
links below it's an good hub 12:15 article very well-written very very simple terms.
It's got some interesting philosophical or just interesting thoughts on how to apply green decent water.
You know that vantages and disadvantage and how to be how to do things in certain situations so you
got some very cool tips tricks and hacks very easy read.
So definitely check that out.
And another one a bit more heavier read.
For those of you who are intimate thematics who want to get to the bottom of the mathematics why gradient
descent is that specific.
What are the formulas that are driving gradients and how is it calculate and so on.
Check out the article or actually the book.
It's a free online book called neural networks and deep learning by Michael Nielsen 2050 book.
It's just basically it's all on line you can go ahead and check it out there and there again very soft
introduction to the mathematics.
But then for Mother Earth the math but the mathematics are pretty heavy as you go along as you read
through the article.
But at the same time it gets you into into that mood I think you mean has like a warm up chapter where
you first warm up for the math and then you jump into I'm so interested in math and this is the article
to go to and there we go so that's in a nutshell the difference between Graney sense to cast a gradient
descent and how to work.
And on that note we're going to wrap up today's tutorial.
I look forward to seeing you on the next one.
And until then enjoy deep learning.